






 Mobilized stakeholders - The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in France


























































































Menu


Content


Search


Footer












                                    Gouvernement



                                    Search
                                

                                    Menu
                                




The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in France
The Sustainable Development Goals website (SDGs)






Help

Display mode





EN - English




FR - Français


EN - English










Close



                                            Search
                                        




                                            Search
                                        










Close



Display mode





                                        FR - Français





FR - Français


EN - English










Home

Agenda 2030


Presentation
Monitoring system
France
In Europe and worldwide




The 17 Goals

France's road map for the Agenda 2030
Headlines 






Close










Show the breadcrumb


Home

Agenda 2030


France


Mobilized stakeholders










Sommaire de l'article




 Article summary 
The StateCoordinating the implementation of the SDGsNon-state actorsCommitted stakeholdersA network of intermediariesRessource



 Other articles in this section: France


Situation and organization of implementation in France
Mobilized stakeholders
Numerous player initiatives
Elyx: a universal ambassador for the SDGs
Energy Observer, the boat ambassador for the Sustainable Development Goals















Mobilized stakeholders


Published on 19 July 2023






Associations, researchers, citizens, local authorities, companies, the State, trade unions - each has a place and a role to play in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. After an awareness-raising phase, each of these actors generally has an appropriation phase during which they revisit their existing projects through the lens of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and verify that their action is useful for certain SDGs; in a second phase, their action program may be modified to strengthen their contribution to the achievement of a broader set of SDGs, beyond their core business.

The State Coordinating the implementation of the SDGs
The Sustainable Development Delegation  coordinates the national implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in France, in close cooperation with all ministries, and in particular with the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs for the international component.
In order to ensure the transversality and coherence of France’s action plan, an interministerial steering committee has been set up, which meets approximately every two months.
Lead and partner ministries have been identified for each SDG. The lead ministries are responsible for setting up project groups to ensure the operational implementation of the SDG they lead, while involving other relevant ministries and key stakeholders. These leaders are also in charge of conducting public policy reviews and gap-analysis.
In addition, the Senior Officials for Sustainable Development, present in each ministry, constitute a network on which the Delegation for Sustainable Development can rely to implement the coordination of public action.

The implementation of the 2030 Agenda implies the mobilization of the entire government and all French public policies must contribute to achieving these goals.






   Enlarge    the figure  2584


   Download   (pdf,  870.3 kb) the document    



                                 Captions of the figure  2584




 
                                              Figure 2584 
                                          

  Raising awareness to involve citizens in the process
It is essential to communicate on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to encourage people to contribute to them by explaining the opportunities they represent. With this in mind, the government has organised or supported a number of initiatives to raise awareness and promote the SDGs, such as communication campaigns organised by various ministries, both internally and aimed at the general public, in particular as part of the European Week for Sustainable Development.
In addition, a communication strategy dedicated exclusively to the Agenda 2030 in France is currently being discussed with the main players committed to the SDGs. Its priority is to raise awareness of the SDGs among as many people as possible by taking part in national events.
A monthly newsletter, "ODDyssée vers 2030", aims to share news about the Sustainable Development Goals around the world, in Europe and in France.

To go further...

 subscribe to the "ODDyssée towards 2030" newsletter »
 previous issues of "ODDyssée towards 2030 »

An online training course or "MOOC" on the Sustainable Development Goals, to understand and analyse the challenges of the SDGs is offered by the Université virtuelle environnement et développement durable (UVED). This hybrid course, which teaches the basic principles (context and general ideas), concepts (relationships between the SDGs, etc.) and implementation information (contributions of the various players) is aimed at different audiences in order to raise awareness among as many people as possible, whatever their level of knowledge or commitment to sustainable development, but also to provide training to help players and citizens take the 17 goals into account in their activities.
 Pour en savoir plus sur le MOOC
FUN MOOC : Objectifs de Développement Durable






Transcription





FUN MOOC : Sustainable Development Goals. A MOOC to help you understand the 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted in 2015 by all the Member States of the United Nations..



In the same spirit of citizen mobilisation, communication tools such as booklets and educational kits are being set up for various audiences.

To go further...  Communication tools for the Sustainable Development Goals (kits, booklets, guides, etc

For any organisation or individual wishing to raise awareness of the Agenda 2030 and integrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into an Action (project, policy, etc.), tools exist, and respond to the different levels of appropriation of the Agenda 2030!

To go further...The SDGs at your fingertips with the SDG toolkit
Non-state actors Committed stakeholders Local stakeholders, associations, research ...
The Agenda 2030 represents a new opportunity for the development of sustainable territorial projects: a universal frame of reference to better highlight local actions and cooperate with other territories, a common language to encourage partnerships between players and raise awareness among citizens, a global approach that gives more meaning to the actions undertaken.
Through a wide range of grassroots actions, projects, experiments and educational initiatives linked to the challenges of sustainable development and carried out in partnership with other stakeholders, the voluntary movement is also helping to familiarise citizens and stakeholders with the challenges of the Agenda 2030 and to get them moving.
Other players are using the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as an object of study in order to find solutions to make their actions more innovative, responsible and sustainable. This is particularly true of the various players involved in research  (research institutes, think tanks, etc.).

To go further...

 A bibliography on "territories and the SDGs » (guide, report, etc.)
 A bibliography on "associations, research and the SDGs » (guide, report, etc.)
 Companies
Companies of all sizes are being encouraged to align their strategy and governance with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular by focusing on their core business, rethinking their business model and developing their social responsibility. The 2030 Agenda gives companies the opportunity to reconsider their strategy in an integrated way in the face of sustainable development challenges, in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered and anticipate societal risks. The SDGs promote the creation of shared value for the benefit of all stakeholders. They therefore provide a strategic framework for action, dialogue and monitoring with a view to sustainable development, which is useful for companies both at home and abroad.

To go further... A  bibliography on "business and the SDGs" (guide, report, etc)
 A few examples of initiatives
To go further ...

Numerous initiatives by players - local authorities, associations, businesses, research, etc.
 A network of intermediaries
France relies on so-called "relay" actors, who carry out projects or initiatives that are a reference and respond to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in order to make the 17 goals accessible and concrete for as many people as possible. It establishes partnerships with them to promote the dissemination of the Agenda 2030 culture.
 Victorien Erussard, French ambassador for the SDGs
The first boat for the Sustainable Development Goals

Energy Observer is the first electric vessel powered by renewable energies and hydrogen. It’s a boat that emits no greenhouse gases or fine particles, and that travels the oceans drawing its energy from nature without damaging it.
This challenge, both human and technological, is being led by Victorien Erussard, Jérôme Delafosse and a passionate crew, determined to prove that a cleaner future is possible and to promote innovative and effective solutions for the energy transition by travelling the world. During the many stopovers, he and his team will be documenting inspiring local sustainable projects that are helping to achieve the SDGs.

To go further ...

Energy Observer initiative
 Elyx as virtual ambassador for the SDGs
The character Elyx has been appointed the first virtual ambassador - neither male nor female, neither white nor black and ageless - to the United Nations.

Used in actions to promote the Sustainable Development Goals, it is part of this ambition for inclusion and broad mobilisation. Although Elyx is universal and has no nationality, its creator - YAK for Yacine Ait Kaci - is French, and remains very active in France, particularly on social networks.
In this way, Elyx is helping to spread the culture of the SDGs across the country, embedding itself in all types of environment, taking part in all communications surrounding climate summits, collaborating with international bodies (UN, UNESCO, etc.) and so on.

To go further ...

Elyx and its designer YAK
Ressource
To go further ...

 Bibliography of various reports and articles on mobilising civil society
 Tools for integrating the Agenda 2030 into projects




Share this page


Share on Facebook


Share on Twitter


Share on LinkedIn


Share by email


Copy to clipboard


 

















Stay informed 
 by subscribing to our newsletter ODDyssée vers 2030 (French content)




                                                Your e-mail (ex. : nom@domaine.fr)
                                            


                                                        Subscribe







Follow us
                                        on social networks
                                       
                                    




Follow us on Twitter





 RSS feed









Haut de page








Navigation


Home


Agenda 2030


The 17 Goals


xxxx


xxxx


xxxx




About Agenda 2030


Who are we ?


Contact us




Useful links


Ministry of Ecological Transition and Territorial Cohesion










                        Gouvernement


This site provides reference information on the Agenda 2030 and France’s roadmap. It promotes the mobilization of all players.


											 legifrance.gouv.fr
										     info.gouv.fr
											 service-public.frdata.gouv.fr




Site map
Accessibility: not compliant
Legal notice
About us
Cookies management


                                Display mode
                            



Unless otherwise stated, all content on this site is under licence CC BY-NC-ND















Close


Display mode




                                        Choose a theme to customize the look of the site.
                                    




                                                Light mode
                                            







                                                Dark mode
                                            







                                                System
                                                Use system parameters.














 




