Another key challenge is the environmental impact of energy consumption. Climate change is one of the
biggest environmental challenges facing the world today. Singapore is similarly vulnerable to the effectsof global warming. A global solution is needed, but forming a global consensus on the way ahead will notbe easy. We are a small country, and our efforts alone will not have any impact on climate change. However,as a responsible global citizen, we will play our part in the global efforts to mitigate climate change.
Moving forward, we need a holistic national energy policy framework to meet our objectives of economic
competitiveness, energy security and environmental sustainability. As a small island state with limitedindigenous resources, a strong and growing economy is our best defence against high energy pricesand climate change. But we need to strike a balance between keeping our economic vibrancy, whileensuring our energy security, and safeguarding our environment.
We have been on the path toward sustainable growth for many years. We have succeeded in growing
a strong industrial sector, while keeping our environment clean, green and liveable. We have cleanedup all our waterways, managed traffic congestion and have groomed a city in a garden. To further reduceemissions and energy costs, we need a concerted effort from the public, private and people sectors toachieve a stepped-up improvement in energy efficiency and conservation.
We also have a strong base to capture the global opportunities in energy. There are new and exciting
opportunities to pursue in clean energy, such as solar power, fuel cells, biofuels, and in energy efficiency.From these, there will be spin-offs in services and other supporting industries that will give an additionalbuzz and grow Singapore into a global energy hub.
Energy for Growth
 outlines the challenges and opportunities that the current energy climate presents
to Singapore, and Singaporeans. With a robust national energy policy framework and a comprehensiveset of energy strategies, all of us can help achieve our vision of making Singapore an even more vibrantand exciting place to live, work and play.
LIM HNG KIANG
MINISTER FOR TRADE AND INDUSTRYSINGAPORE
energy for growth   03

energy for growth   05OUR NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY
FRAMEWORK
Moving forward, the inter-agency Energy Policy Group (EPG) chaired
by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)has developed a national energy policy framework which strives tomaintain a balance between the policy objectives of economiccompetitiveness, energy security and environmental sustainability. Tomeet our objective of continued economic growth while safeguardingour energy security and natural environment, our focus will be on thefollowing six key strategies:
Strategy 1: Promote Competitive Markets
We are committed to the promotion of competitive markets. This will
help keep energy affordable and ensure our economic competitiveness.We have liberalised our electricity and gas markets, and are lookinginto enabling full contestability in the electricity retail market. Wherethere are market failures, we will correct them by using market-basedinstruments or imposing standards and regulations. We will alsoencourage the private sector to innovate and achieve the energysecurity and environmental outcomes that we are seeking.
Strategy 2: Diversify Energy Supplies
Energy diversification will help to protect us against supply disruptions,
price increases and other threats to the reliability of supply. In competitivemarkets, companies themselves will have the incentives to diversify,and reduce their own commercial risks. The Government’s role is tocreate an open and flexible framework that allows diversification totake place. For Singapore, there are also practical challenges to fueldiversification due to our limited energy options. Hydro, geothermaland wind power are not available in Singapore, while nuclear energyis not feasible due to our small size. Solar and coal power have somepotential, but they face cost and technological barriers, and environmentalconcerns respectively. Nonetheless, we should not write off any energyoption for Singapore. As technology improves, energy sources whichare not viable for Singapore today may become feasible options inthe future.Strategy 3: Improve Energy Efficiency
Improving energy efficiency is a key strategy as it can help to achieve
all three objectives of our energy policy. Using less energy to obtainthe same output will decrease our dependence on energy imports andenhance our energy security, while reducing business costs, pollutionand CO
2 emissions. The Government has set up an Energy Efficiency
Programme Office (E2PO) and developed a comprehensive national
energy efficiency plan called Energy Efficient Singapore (E2 Singapore).
Strategy 4: Build Energy Industry and Invest in Energy R&D
We can turn the energy challenges into opportunities by positioning
our economy to meet rising global and regional demand for energy.We intend to increase our refining capacity to consolidate our statusas Asia’s premier oil hub. We will expand the range of energy tradingproducts to include liquefied natural gas (LNG), biofuels and carbonemission credits. We are also pursuing growth opportunities in cleanand renewable energy, including solar energy, biofuels and fuel cells.Strong research and development (R&D) capabilities are required tosupport industry development in these areas, which will also enableus to develop solutions that address our own energy needs.
Strategy 5: Step Up International Cooperation
Given our small size and reliance on energy imports, it is important
that our energy policy includes efforts to promote greater regional andinternational energy cooperation to further our energy interests. Toenhance our energy security, Singapore continues to be actively involvedin various energy-related initiatives in major fora, including the Associationof Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Asia-Pacific EconomicCooperation (APEC) and the East Asia Summit (EAS). Because effectiveaction against climate change needs to be carried out at an internationallevel, Singapore also participates actively in the United NationsFramework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), as well asinternational discussions on climate change in other fora.

08d)Buildings
Building control regulations help reduce the energy required for cooling, while the Green Mark and EnergySmart schemes help spu r
developers to build energy efficient buildings. From 2008 onwards, all new buildings and existing buildings undergoing major re trofitting
works with gross floor area (GFA) above 2,000m2 must meet the Green Mark Certified standard. The Government has also launched the
Green Mark Incentive Scheme to encourage building developers to achieve higher Green Mark ratings.
e)Households
We will continue to encourage consumers to purchase energy efficient appliances and to adopt energy saving habits. New initiati ves include
mandatory energy labelling for all household refrigerators and air-conditioners sold in Singapore, and encouraging households t o reduce
standby power consumption.
ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The production, transmission and consumption of energy have an impact on the environment, in terms of localised health impact d ue to air
pollutants and long-term, wide-ranging climate change impact due to GHG emissions.
We have formulated a National Climate Change Strategy (NCCS) in 2007 which articulates Singapore's comprehensive responses to c limate
change. The NCCS lays out ongoing measures and future plans in the area of adapting to climate change and in mitigating CO 2 emissions. The
National Climate Change Committee (N3C) led by the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) also provides an aven ue to
engage and gather feedback on climate change and energy efficiency from the public, private and people sectors.
To better understand the potential impact of climate change on Singapore over the next century, the NEA has commissioned a clim ate change
vulnerability study that is scheduled for completion in 2009. The findings will enable us to design a robust long-term adaptati on response to
climate change.
To mitigate our GHG emissions, the two key measures are to use less carbon-intensive fuels and to improve our energy efficiency . Singapore’s
ambient air quality compares well to major cities in developed countries for most pollutants except particulate matter. Diesel vehicles account
for about 50 per cent of the emissions of particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (PM 2.5) in Singapore. Apart from compuls ory periodic
inspections, we have adopted Euro IV standards for new diesel vehicles in October 2006. In addition, we will continue to promot e the use of
green vehicles such as petrol-electric hybrid vehicles and compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles.
We also need to continue to deal with sulphur dioxide (SO 2) emissions from power plants and our oil refining industry. The power generation
sector (power plants using oil) and industries account for about 99 per cent of SO 2 emissions and 30 per cent of PM 2.5 emissions. To reduce
the levels of these pollutants, we have implemented emission concentration limits for various air pollutants, an overall emissi on cap for SO 2 and
limited the sulphur content of fuels.
OUR ENERGY INDUSTRY
The energy industry is a major contributor to the Singapore economy. Looking ahead, while we envisage that our oil industry wil l continue to
play a key role, there are exciting new opportunities in areas such as solar power, fuel cells, biofuels and energy management solutions. Our
goal is to increase the value-added of Singapore’s energy industry from $20 billion to around $34 billion by 2015, and to tripl e the employment
generated from 5,700 to 15,300.

energy for growth   09The following are the developmental strategies to expand our energy industry:
a)Expand refining base
Due to strong demand for oil in Asia, there is considerable upside for Singapore to grow our refining capacity from itspresent 1.3 million barrels per day. We will do this by promoting the expansion and upgrading of our existing refineriesand attracting greenfield investments. This will help maintain our share of global refining capacity, and create the liquidityneeded to anchor oil trading and price discovery activities in Singapore.
b)Extend beyond oil trading to energy trading
We can leverage on our experience in oil trading and expand the range of energy products priced and traded in Singaporeto include LNG, carbon emission credits and biofuels. Since May 2007, we have introduced a concessionary tax rateof 5 per cent on LNG trading income for companies under the Global Trader Programme (GTP). Emission credits andbiofuels are also included as qualifying products under the GTP.
c)Grow the clean energy sector
The global market for clean energy technologies is expected to experience tremendous expansion in the next decade.Singapore views clean energy as a key growth area. Our experience and capabilities in the semiconductor, industrialequipment and chemicals sectors put us in good stead to capture opportunities in the solar, fuel cells and biofuelsmarkets. Creating a conducive environment for technological innovation and R&D will also be essential for the growthof this sector.
d)Help sustainable energy solutions providers expand regionally
Rapid urbanisation and increasing awareness of climate change issues in Asia will lead to greater demand for sustainableenergy solutions that are applicable to urban environments. Singapore can capitalise on market opportunities in areassuch as intelligent grid management through growing a pool of energy services companies that can export their expertiseon energy efficiency and conservation.
OUR ENERGY R&D
New energy technologies can help make our energy system more efficient, cleaner and more diversified. Our research institutes,universities, and the private sector are already engaging in various energy-related R&D activities. For instance, the Agency fo r
Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), the National University of Singapore (NUS) and the Nanyang TechnologicalUniversity (NTU) are developing novel materials for solar cells. Another example is Vestas, the world’s largest supplier of win d
power systems, which is setting up a $500 million R&D centre in Singapore.
Moving forward, we will intensify our energy R&D efforts in areas where we have expertise or competitive advantage. One key
new initiative is the Singapore Initiative in New Energy Technologies (SINERGY) Centre which will provide technical infrastruct ure,
such as a microgrid and command and control facility, to facilitate research on clean and sustainable energy solutions. Thecentre will also develop in-house expertise in systems integration, testing and evaluation of energy technologies.

10In addition, A*STAR has established an Energy Technology R&D Programme to integrate and expand existing knowledge, as well as w ork on
fuel cells, alternative fuels and next-generation solar technologies. In August 2007, EDB launched the Clean Energy Research an d Test-bedding
Programme (CERT), which will provide $17 million in funding to promote the application of clean energy technologies to public s ector facilities.
The National Research Foundation (NRF) has also set aside $170 million to boost our clean energy R&D efforts, starting with a f ocus on solar
technologies and fuel cells.
ENGAGING OUR INTERNATIONAL ENERGY PARTNERS
The objectives of our external energy engagement strategy are three-fold:
a)Promote regional and international energy cooperation to further our energy interests
On a bilateral level, Singapore will continue to develop relations and enhance cooperation with key energy players such as ener gy producing
countries and industry majors. On the multilateral level, we participate actively in regional and international fora including ASEAN, EAS and
APEC, to promote various initiatives such as energy market integration, energy efficiency and renewable energy. We also support  and 
actively participate in climate change initiatives both within the UNFCCC framework and at other fora. The Government has set u p a
Ministerial Committee on Climate Change chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Professor S Jayakumar to coordinate our efforts. Altho ugh
we are a small country, we have been finding innovative ways to contribute meaningfully, such as sharing our experience in wate r and
waste management, and sustainable city planning. Concerns over energy security and climate change have also resulted in a re-em ergence
of nuclear energy as an important alternative energy source. In this regard, we are working with various partners to create the  environment
to encourage the development of safe and secure nuclear energy for civilian use.
b)Promote security of vital energy sea lanes in the region
For Singapore and East Asia, the Straits of Malacca and Singapore (SOMS) is an integral part of the critical energy supply rout e from the
Middle East to East and Southeast Asia. The security of transit along the SOMS is critical to the energy security of Singapore and the
region. The littoral states of Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore participate in a range of initiatives to ensure safe transit p assage and the
freedom of navigation through the SOMS. The establishment of the Cooperative Mechanism in September 2007 will further facilitat e
cooperation on navigational safety and environmental protection between user and littoral states in the SOMS.
c)Promote Singapore as a centre of energy research and excellence
We will need to develop expertise and capabilities on energy-related issues and to keep abreast of global developments in this area. The
establishment of the ESI will support this objective by promoting greater awareness, dialogue and collaboration within the regi on through
policy-oriented research and organising activities such as conferences and seminars. Singapore will also strengthen our collabo ration with
various research institutes on energy R&D through agencies such as NRF and A*STAR.
LOOKING AHEAD
Energy for Growth  outlines our national energy policy framework and strategies with the aim of achieving economic competitiveness, energy
security and environmental sustainability. We must continuously monitor and understand developments in the evolving global ener gy landscape,
and be ready to fine-tune existing policies and formulate new strategies when needed, to keep Singapore ahead in the energy are na, so as to
support our continued economic growth.

THECHANGING ENERGY LANDSCAPE
14Global oil and gas reserves are concentrated in the Middle East, Russia,
Central Asia and Africa [see Charts 1.2 and 1.3]. In particular, theMiddle East holds 61.5 and 40.5 per cent share of world proven oiland gas reserves respectively. It is inevitable that the world will becomeincreasingly dependent on the Middle East for oil and gas. Geopoliticalconflicts in the Middle East will therefore have a greater impact on theworld.
In the oil market, most of the additional supply needed to meet
expanding demand will come from member countries of the Organisationof Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which hold the bulk of theworld’s oil reserves. OPEC’s share of global oil supply will rise, andthis will increase its ability to influence oil prices. Nevertheless, OPECis likely to refrain from driving oil prices up too high, as this mightaccelerate the development of alternative energy sources and dampendemand for oil.
As with oil, gas reserves are concentrated in a small number of countries.
Going forward, natural gas prices are likely to continue to follow thetrend in oil prices, due to the prevalent practice of indexing gas pricesto oil prices. The majority of gas trade is likely to remain governed
by long-term contracts. However, as the use of liquefied natural gas(LNG) in creases, short-term contracts and spot trading may become
more prevalent.
Coal resources are dispersed more widely. Most coal reserves are
found in or near the main energy demand centres of North America,Europe and Asia [see Chart 1.4]. Because of this and the costcompetitiveness of coal, the use of coal is expected to grow. The IEAhas projected coal’s share of world energy supply to increase to 26per cent in 2030 from 24.8 per cent in 2004.
Concerns over energy security, high fossil fuel prices and carbon
emissions have also brought about a renewed interest in nuclear energy,including in Asia. Nuclear energy is a proven technology for powergeneration. Depending on the cost of construction and financing,nuclear power may also be comparable to gas-fired generation in termsof cost-competitiveness. However, nuclear power also brings with itthe attendant concerns of nuclear proliferation, safety and nuclearwaste disposal.
Asia Pacific
3.4%Africa
9.7%Europe &
Eurasia
5.4%Russia
6.6%Latin America
8.6%
North America
5.0%
Middle East
61.5%Chart 1.2: World Proven Oil Reserves (end 2006)
Middle East
40.5%Russia
26.3%Asia Pacific
8.2%Africa
7.8%
Europe &
Eurasia
9.1%
North America
4.4%
Latin
America
3.8%Chart 1.3: World Proven Natural Gas Reserves
(end 2006)
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy

THECHANGING ENERGY LANDSCAPE
18Chart 1.7: Global Primary Energy Supply
Source: IEA1990
2004
2015
203018000
16000
14000
1200010000
80006000
4000
2000
0Other
Renewables
Biomass
and Waste
Hydro
Nuclear
Gas
Oil
Coal2004 - 2030
Compound Annual
Growth Rate
6.6%
1.3%2.0%0.7%2.0%1.3%1.8%
Concerns over climate change have fuelled a strong growth in demand for renewable energy,
supported not just by government subsidies, but also consumers who are increasingly showing awillingness to pay a premium for green energy. The IEA projects that global demand for renewableenergy (excluding hydropower and biomass) would grow at about 6.6 per cent a year [see Chart1.7]. However, the total contribution of non-hydro/biomass renewable energy is expected to besmall, at just about 1 to 2 per cent of global energy supply, due to the very low base they arestarting from. Fossil fuels will continue to dominate the energy landscape, contributing about 80per cent of global supply in 2030.
Improving energy efficiency holds great potential to both mitigate CO
2 emissions as well as to
promote sustainable national development. Increasing energy efficiency not only reduces GHGemissions, it also improves air quality, reduces energy costs, and helps to improve energy securityby mitigating our energy demand growth.
Million tonnes of oil
equivalent

STRATEGY 2: DIVERSIFY ENERGY
SUPPLIES
Diversification can help enhance our energy security, by spreading our
risks. It is the best way of protecting ourselves against supply disruptions,price increases, and other threats to the reliability of supply. To enhanceenergy security, we should promote a more diverse energy system.More importantly, we should avoid becoming overly dependent on anyenergy supplier.
In competitive markets, companies themselves will have incentives to
diversify, to reduce their own commercial risks. Technological and marketdevelopments can alter the relative competitiveness of different fuels,which will contribute to the diversity of our fuel mix over time. TheGovernment’s role is therefore to create an open and flexible frameworkthat allows diversification to take place. The framework must also bestable and predictable, to encourage investment by reducing uncertainties.
However, this approach may not be enough on its own. Specific policies
may still be necessary on occasions where markets are unable toprovide for sufficient diversity. The Government has to plan ahead withcritical infrastructure to permit diversification. For example, theGovernment has decided to control the import of PNG so as to allowan orderly entry of LNG for our energy needs.
For Singapore, there are also practical challenges to fuel diversification,
due to our limited energy options. Hydro, geothermal and wind powerare not available in Singapore. Due to our small size and high populationdensity, nuclear power is not feasible. Solar power has some potentialgiven our geographical location, but it faces cost and technologicalbarriers at the moment. Coal power is viable, but the environmentalconcerns have to be addressed. Nonetheless, we should not write offany energy option for Singapore. As technology improves, energysources which are not viable for Singapore today may become viablein future. We therefore need to keep a close watch on the developmentof various energy technologies.STRATEGY 3: IMPROVE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY
Using less energy will help to reduce our dependence on imports and
enhance our energy security, while at the same time, cut down ourCO
2 intensity, air pollution and business costs. The Government has
held to the principle of not subsidising energy, thereby encouragingenergy efficiency and conservation. However, market signals are sometimestoo weak to promote energy saving practices even though such projectsmay be cost-effective over the project life cycle. This may be due to alack of information, split incentives, and higher upfront costs.
2
The National Environment Agency (NEA) is working with the relevantagencies through the Energy Efficiency Programme Office (E
2PO) to
design and implement energy efficiency programmes in each of thesectors of energy use, namely, power generation, industry, transport,buildings and households. It will also undertake public educationprogrammes to cultivate a stronger culture of energy efficiencyand conservation.
24OURNATIONAL ENERGY POLICY FRAMEWORK
Artist s impression of TreeTops @ Punggol, HDB s first eco-precinct
2Consumers may not know the energy efficiency rating of the products they are buying, and thus may not fully take into account t he cost savings that can be achieved
by choosing more efficient products. Split incentives occur when an economic agent does not have an incentive to increase energ y efficiency as the cost savings 
accrue to another party. For example, a developer may not have the incentive to spend the higher upfront costs to build an ener gy-efficient building, because the
tenants are the ones who will enjoy the lower costs of energy.

STRATEGY 4: BUILD ENERGY INDUSTRY
AND INVEST IN ENERGY R&D
Developing the energy industry is a critical strategy to turn the energy
challenges into opportunities for Singapore. Our approach is to developthe industry centred on providing holistic energy solutions for a city-like environment, by building on our existing strengths and a strongtechnology foundation. We then apply these solutions to the variousenergy markets such as transportation, power, industry and buildings.
One key priority is to widen our lead in the oil industry. Specifically, we
intend to increase the level of investment and output in petroleumrefining. To anchor our position as Asia’s premier energy trading hub,we will also increase the range of energy products traded in Singapore,in particular, LNG, biofuels and CO
2 emission credits.
Separately, we will pursue the growth opportunities arising from clean
energy, such as solar, fuel cells and biofuels. We will also draw on ourstrengths in engineering, design and urban planning, to developsustainable energy solutions and services. To support industrydevelopment in these areas, R&D capability is necessary for success.Possessing R&D capability will also enable us to identify, customise ordevelop solutions that address Singapore’s domestic energy needs.
STRATEGY 5: STEP UP INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION
Given the growing interdependence between energy consumers and
energy producers, as well as our small size and dependence on energyimports, international cooperation is critical to ensure energy securityand effective action on environmental protection. We need to promotegreater regional and international energy cooperation, and work withpartner countries to enhance the security of key energy transit routes.
Efforts are already underway. For example, we have been playing anactive role in several key fora, including the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN), Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)and the East Asia Summit (EAS), to promote greater dialogue andcooperation on energy issues and help develop an open and integratedregional energy market. Under Singapore’s Chairmanship, ASEANEnergy Ministers signed the Memorandum of Understanding on theASEAN Power Grid (APG) in August 2007. Singapore also initiated theestablishment of the EAS Energy Cooperation Task Force, and hostedthe inaugural EAS Energy Ministers’ Meeting. As effective action againstclimate change can only take place at an international level, Singaporealso participates actively in the UNFCCC, as well as discussions onclimate change in other fora.
STRATEGY 6: DEVELOP WHOLE-OF-
GOVERNMENT APPROACH TO ENERGYPOLICY
In the past, the Government’s energy policies on energy market
regulation, energy industry development, environmental protection andinternational cooperation, were often pursued individually by therespective ministries or agencies responsible for the issue. However,the growing complexity and strategic importance of energy policy nowdemands a Whole-of-Government approach.
The work of drawing together the different strands of our energy policy
began with the formation of the Energy Policy Group (EPG) in March2006. Chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Tradeand Industry (MTI), EPG consists of senior representatives from thekey energy-related ministries and agencies.
3 The EPG’s efforts are
supported by four inter-agency working groups on EconomicCompetitiveness, Energy Security, Climate Change and the Environment,and Energy Industry Development, each headed by different agencies.
3The EPG consists of representatives from the Ministry of Finance (MOF); the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA); the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources
(MEWR); the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI); the Ministry of Transport (MOT); the Agency for Science, Technology and Resea rch (A*STAR); the Building and
Construction Authority (BCA); the Economic Development Board (EDB); the Energy Market Authority (EMA); the Land Transport Autho rity (LTA); and the National
Environment Agency (NEA).

ENHANCING ENERGY SECURITY
Energy security encompasses the management of both supply risks and price risks. Singapore is highly dependent on imported fuel s for our
power generation needs. This exposes us to a number of supply risks, including capacity bottlenecks in producer countries, and supply disruptions
arising from geopolitical conflicts, terrorism and natural disasters. We also face the risk of rising oil and gas prices, which  can blunt our economic
competitiveness and undermine our growth.
Diversification is the best way to ensure energy security. We should not be overly reliant on a single source for our energy ne eds. Currently,
Singapore has a narrow base of energy sources. In the first half of 2007, 75.8 per cent of Singapore’s electricity was generate d from natural
gas [see Chart 3.1]. Compared to the global average [see Chart 3.2], Singapore’s fuel mix is much less diversified. Our natural  gas is currently
supplied by Malaysia and Indonesia through pipelines. However, due to rapidly rising domestic demand for gas in Malaysia and In donesia, they
may not have sufficient excess gas production to maintain their exports to other countries in the region, including Singapore.
Chart 3.2: Global Electricity Fuel Mix (2005)
Source: IEAHydro 16.0%
Nuclear
15.2%
Others 2.2%
Natural Gas 19.7% Oil 6.6%Coal
40.3%Chart 3.1: Singapore Electricity Fuel Mix (1H2007)
Natural Gas
75.8%
Refuse 2.3%
Diesel 0.3%
Fuel Oil 21.6%
Source: EMA

1 The handbook is available at http://www.ema.gov.sgNew policies are also needed to facilitate the introduction of promising new energy technologies. Our action plan
to support the development of emerging energy technologies includes:
a) Research & Development
A*STAR has established an Energy Technology R&D Programme, and is setting up the Singapore Initiativeon New Energy Technologies (SINERGY) Centre to develop alternative energy technologies and intelligentgrid management systems for distributed generation. In addition, the National Research Foundation (NRF)has set aside $170 million for R&D in clean energy.
b)Test-bedding and Demonstration
EMA is setting up a $5 million Market Development Fund which will help to pay market charges for thetest-bedding of new power generation technologies. EDB has also launched a $17 million Clean EnergyResearch and Test-bedding Programme to test-bed solar photovoltaic (PV) and other new technologies.
c)Reducing Cost and Facilitating Grid Connection
Micro generation capacity of less than 1 MW for self-consumption is already exempted from market charges.In June 2007, EMA removed the registration fee for market participation that was previously imposed on facilities that are selling electricity into the grid. EMA is also reviewing the reduction of the Wholesaler (Generation) Licence fee. In addition, EMA has published a “Handbook for Photovoltaic (PV) Systems” whichexplains the market and technical issues regarding the connection of  PV systems to the grid.
1

32ENERGY FORTHEPOWER SECTOR
Natural gas  (used in CCGTs) is among the most
cost-competitive fuels for power generation. Itis also the cleanest fossil fuel. Going forward,new power generation plantings in Singaporeare likely to be CCGTs. Consequently, the shareof natural gas in Singapore’s fuel mix is likelyto increase.
Fuel oil  is an alternative to natural gas for power
generation. However, compared to natural gas,electricity generated from fuel oil is about 25 percent more expensive. As a result, fuel oil’s shareof the power generation market has fallen sharplyover the years. Fuel oil is also less desirable fromthe environmental viewpoint as its pollutantsand greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are highercompared to natural gas.
Coal  is a cost-competitive fuel for power
generation that is used in many countries aroundthe world. Although coal itself is dirty, moderntechnologies are able to reduce emission ofpollutants such as particulate matter and sulphurdioxide to acceptable levels. Coal can also behandled and stored cleanly. However, coal plantsgenerate a large amount of ash, which is anissue for Singapore due to our limited space forwaste disposal. This can be partly mitigated byusing coal with low ash content and recyclinga certain proportion of the ash produced (e.g.as cement substitutes). CO
2 emission is another
concern as coal plants emit higher levels of CO 2
than oil-fired steam plants. The scope for coalin Singapore will be limited by land availability,because coal plants require more land comparedto natural gas plants.Singapore does not have any hydro  and
geothermal  energy  resources. While there are
several possible ways to tap energy from thesea, such as wave , tidal or ocean thermal
energy , many of these technologies are still in
the experimental stage. Furthermore, much ofour sea space is used for ports, anchorage andshipping lanes, which will limit the application ofocean energy technologies.
Wind energy is a proven technology, but
Singapore’s wind speeds are too low to generatepower efficiently. Annual average wind speedshould be at least 4.5 metres per second (m/sec)for a project to be economically viable butthe average wind speed in Singapore is onlyabout 2 m/sec. Moreover, larger and moreefficient wind turbines require a lot of space,whether on land or at sea. Hence, large scaledeployment of wind energy is infeasible in land-scarce Singapore.
Waste incineration , which is classified under
biomass, currently contributes a small butsignificant 2 to 3 per cent of our power output.There are other biomass possibilities, such asbiogas from food waste. But biomass’ share ofour electricity generation may not see anymeaningful increase since it is determinedprimarily by the amount of waste the countryproduces. Our policies to reduce, reuse andrecycle waste will further cap waste production.
Solar  PV has greater potential for Singapore
because of our relatively high solar radiation.However, solar PV is still about two to threetimes more expensive than Singapore’s lowtension tariffs due to the high upfront cost of PVsystems. Nonetheless, the cost of solar PV had
historically been falling at about 5 per cent ayear, due to improvements in manufacturingprocesses and technology. Building integratedPV has the potential to improve the economicsof PV by reducing building materials cost.
Electricity supply has to be available on demand.
One limitation of intermittent renewable energysources such as wind and solar energy is thatthey will either have to be fully backed up byother power sources or require investments inenergy storage in order to maintain reliability ofpower supply. When the share of intermittentelectricity sources becomes significant, higherlevels of spinning reserves are needed to guardagainst a dip in power output, which will increasesystem costs.
Nuclear power  is an important source of energy
in many countries. It is a very low carbon energysource because the fission process does notrelease CO
2. Depending on the cost of financing,
nuclear power can be cost-competitive with coaland natural gas despite its much higher upfrontcost. International guidelines recommend thatnuclear power stations be sited a distance awayfrom population centres. Given Singapore’slimited land area and high population density,nuclear power is therefore not feasible. The needfor a long-term solution for nuclear waste disposalis another challenge. No country has yetimplemented a long-term solution to the problemof nuclear wastes, although a few countries haveplans to build repositories deep underground inareas identified as being geologically stable.International discussion on the use of nuclearenergy is still evolving.Box 3.2: Energy options for the power sectorDue to geographical, technological or other practical constraints, Singapore’s options to diversify away from oil and gas for p ower generation
are limited [see Box 3.2]. Nonetheless, we should keep all energy options on the table. As technology improves, energy sources which are not
feasible for Singapore today may become viable in future.

58ENERGY SOLUTIONS
Grid Management Tr ade (fuels, carbon) Energy ServicesChart 7.1: Developing a Comprehensive Energy Industry Cluster
ENERGYIntergrate
STRONG TECHNOLOGY FOUNDATIONCONVENTIONAL
ENERGYCLEAN
ENERGY
Gas Oil
Fuel Cells SolarBiomassSecurity
Climate Change
Urbanisation
Economic GrowthDRIVERS
DeliverTransport
Power
Industry
BuildingLOCAL &
REGIONAL
MARKETS
Moving forward, our oil industry will remain a key sector of our economy. We are also aware of exciting opportunities in new gr owth areas such
as solar power, fuel cells, biofuels and energy management solutions. Our approach is hence to develop the industry centred on providing holistic
energy solutions, through building on our existing strengths and strong technology foundation [see Chart 7.1]. We aim to increa se the value-
added from Singapore’s energy industry from $20 billion to $34 billion by 2015, and to triple the employment in this sector fro m 5,700 to 15,300.GROWING OUR ENERGY INDUSTRY
STRATEGY 1: EXPAND REFINING BASE
The tripling of oil prices since 1999 has been the result of strong
demand from a buoyant global economy, especially in China and therest of Asia. China alone is already the second largest oil consumer inthe world, and is expected to double its oil consumption over the next20 years. Asia as a whole is expected to consume over 30 per centof the world’s total oil by 2030.
3
Over the past three decades, the global economy has become lessenergy-intensive, and is better able to cope with higher energy costs.Combined with limited production capacities and continued supply-side risks due to political instability and natural disasters, a sustainedperiod of higher oil prices is likely to continue. Against this backdropof oil demand and supply trends, global refining capacity is expectedto increase by 30 million barrels per day by 2030.As a result, there is considerable potential for growing Singapore’s oil
refining capacity beyond the current 1.3 million barrels per day. Refiningoperations are knowledge- and technology-intensive, and can createemployment in the chemical, process, electrical and environmentalengineering fields. We will promote the expansion and upgrading ofour existing refineries and attract greenfield investments to maintainSingapore’s share of global refining capacity. This will ensure that thereis a critical volume of export-oriented refining throughput to create theliquidity needed to anchor oil trading and price discovery activitiesin Singapore.
3Source: EIA International Energy Outlook 2007.

60STRATEGY 3: GROW THE CLEAN ENERGY SECTOR
The convergence of high oil prices, climate change concerns and energy security interests have fostered a surge of interest in
renewable and clean energy technologies such as solar, wind, fuel cells and biofuels. The global market for these four cleanenergy technologies is projected to quadruple from US$55 billion in 2006 to more than US$220 billion by 2016.
7
Clean energy is part of the broader clean technology trend that has attracted significant investment and corporate interest inrecent years.
8 In 2006, the overall venture and private equity investment flowing into the clean energy sector increased by 67
per cent to US$18.1 billion from US$10.8 billion in 2005.9 This is third only to the information technology and biomedical sectors.
Clean energy dominates with 45 per cent of the total clean technologies investments in North America and 75 per cent in Europe.
In March 2007, the Research, Innovation and Enterprise Council (RIEC) chaired by Singapore’s Prime Minister, endorsed clean
energy as a key growth area for Singapore with the target of generating $1.7 billion value-added and 7,000 jobs by 2015.
Clean energy is a sector driven by technological innovations. It builds on advancements in other sectors such as electrical
engineering, mechanical engineering, material science, chemical engineering, nanotechnology and even biotechnology, andapplies these to energy generation and the development of products and systems to enhance energy efficiency. R&D and test-bedding are thus important for the successful development of this sector.
Singapore has several advantages through which it can capture opportunities in clean energy, specifically in the four focus are as
of solar, fuel cells, biofuels and energy efficiency solutions. Energy efficiency solutions will be discussed under Strategy IV .
GROWING OUR ENERGY INDUSTRY
7Source: Clean Edge, Clean Energy Trends, March 2007
8Clean technology is commonly taken to include any knowledge-based energy product or
service that improves operational performance, productivity or efficiency; while reducingcosts, inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution.
9Source: New Energy Finance, Cleaning up 2007, August 2007
10Source: Clean Edge, Clean Energy Trends, March 2007(i) Solar
The global solar industry was a US$15.6 billion market in 2006 and is projected
to continue to grow rapidly at 30 to 40 per cent annually for the next few years.10
For manufacturing, our experience with the semiconductor industry providesSingapore with the industrial infrastructure and a workforce familiar with silicontechnologies which is the dominant material used in photovoltaics (PV). In addition,our manufacturing know-how, including process automation expertise, lendsitself well to the need of the solar industry to scale-up and reduce unit costs inorder to meet rapidly expanding global demand.

From the market standpoint, Singapore is conveniently located to serve
the Asian sunbelt which has about 50 per cent more solar radiationthan the temperate countries. Singapore’s urban landscape providesopportunities to develop capabilities in system integration and buildingintegrated PV which can be exported to the region. Singapore is alsowell positioned to serve the off-grid market in countries such as India,Indonesia, the Philippines and Sri Lanka, that collectively have anestimated one billion people without access to electricity. When solar-generated electricity reaches price parity with retail electricity tariffs,the solar market in the Asian sunbelt is expected to experience anotherquantum leap. This may happen in about 5 to 15 years’ time,depending on the location.
We will endeavour to grow this new sector. Recent developments that
have given a boost to our efforts include the establishment of theworld’s largest solar manufacturing complex in Singapore by Norway’sRenewable Energy Corporation (REC), solar panel manufacturinginvestments by Solar Energy Power and Eco-Solar, and the decisionby leading solar and clean energy companies such as SolarWorld andConergy to set up their Asia-Pacific headquarters in Singapore.
(ii) Fuel Cells
Fuel cells are electrochemical energy conversion devices that can
efficiently and cleanly harness hydrogen which may be produced fromfossil fuel and alternative energy sources. Many renewable energysources such as wind and solar generate power intermittently. Hydrogenis promising as an intermediate energy storage for such renewableenergy sources and in turn, can be used to power fuel cells. While fuelcell technology has attracted much attention over the years, thereremains a lot of development work before mass-scale commercialisationcan take place successfully. For Singapore, our clean energy aspirationsas well as capabilities in managing complex industrial equipmentmanufacturing put us in good stead to capture future opportunities inthis area.(iii) Biofuels
Biofuels, which include biodiesel and bioethanol, refer to fuels derived
from bio-based sources. They have gained prominence largely due totheir immediate viability as a blend or substitute to petroleum fuelsused in land transportation, and their perceived benefits in terms ofenergy security and carbon reductions.
Singapore’s proximity and good logistics connectivity to Malaysia and
Indonesia, which account for 80 per cent of the world’s palm oil supply,has already attracted investments from Peter Cremer, Continental andNatural Fuels since 2005. Their investments will yield a biodieselproduction capacity of 650,000 tonnes per annum on Jurong Island.These plants will utilise first generation trans-esterification technologythat also generate methyl-esters and glycerin by-products, which canin turn generate desirable downstream opportunities and providefeedstock for the chemicals industry.
However, demand for biofuels derived from food crops such as corn,
sugar cane and palm oil has driven up the price of food products, andthis may not be sustainable in the long term. Moreover, given thatmuch of the international interest in biofuels stems from the idea thatthey reduce the amount of carbon produced by fuels (as the cropsabsorb CO
2 while they are growing), biofuels will need to come from
sustainable sources to maintain this reputation. Going forward, we willencourage projects involving second generation biofuels that areproduced from non-food crops such as grass, wood chips and plantwaste, and/or by alternative technologies that produce higher gradebiofuels compared to the first generation. Commercial plants for theseadvanced biofuels are just coming on-stream in Europe. Equallyimportantly, second generation biofuels are also expected to offer abetter energy balance.
11
11Energy balance is the ratio of energy yielded by a given amount of biofuels to the energy needed to produce it. Bioethanol from  corn is estimated to be 1.3 whilst
that from sugar cane is 8.0.

GROWING OUR ENERGY INDUSTRY
62CONCLUSION
We aim to increase the vibrancy of our energy industry with the above strategies. While the oil sector continues to be the lead ing sector, the
addition of new and emerging clean energy industries and energy services, and spin-offs in supporting industries, will contribu te to a comprehensive
energy industry cluster in Singapore.STRATEGY 4 — HELP SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY SOLUTIONS PROVIDERSEXPAND INTO THE REGION
Rapid urbanisation and the formation of mega-cities, especially in Asia,
have heightened concerns over high energy costs, disruptions in energysupply and unstable electricity grids. There is also rising socio-political
awareness of climate change. There will thus be an increasing demandfor the development and supply of sustainable energy solutions applicablein urban environments.
Singapore is well-positioned to capitalise on this market opportunity,
given our global reputation as a clean and green city. Our “Four TapsStrategy”
12 and our integrated approach to the development of water
solutions have placed Singapore on the global map for the waterindustry. We desire to do likewise with energy solutions. This is a bigfield that can range from the development and use of sensors, monitoringand control systems to conserve energy use in industrial settings, tothe design of buildings that reduce the need for artificial light, heatingor cooling. For a start, we will focus on two key areas:
(i) Grid management
The advent of intermittent sources of energy and distributed generation
will create future demand for sophisticated systems to integrate thesesources into the electricity grid safely and reliably. Building on Singapore’spower supply reliability and liberalised electricity market status, weintend to pursue the development of these solutions. We are installinga microgrid on Jurong Island, as part of the SINERGY Centre for thepurpose of test-bedding new technologies such as solar PV systems
and fuel cells. We aim to deploy such technologies on a commercialscale in the future. Such know-how would also be exportable.
(ii) Energy consultancy and engineering services
Energy efficiency is a practical and tenable option for reducing energy
utilisation and cost, safeguarding the environment and enhancingenergy security. There are significant opportunities for energy servicescompanies (ESCOs) that provide consultancy and engineering servicesrelated to energy conservation. As Singapore develops best practicesin energy efficiency across our industrial, building and other sectors,we will also develop a pool of ESCOs with good track records that willbe able to export their services.
12The Four Taps  are (i) Local Catchment, (ii) Imported Water, (iii) Desalinated Water and (iv) Reclaimed Water.

CURRENT ENERGY R&D EFFORTS
There are already a number of energy research activities taking place
in our research institutes, institutes of higher learning and the privatesector. These initiatives have largely been driven by the researchinterests of the organisations concerned. Examples include researchon novel materials for solar cells by the Institute of Materials Researchand Engineering (IMRE), NUS and NTU. In addition, the Institute ofChemical Engineering Sciences (ICES) has process R&D expertise tosupport the petroleum refining and chemicals industries, and has alsostarted programmes to develop catalysts and novel processes forcellulosic ethanol conversion.
Energy R&D in the private sector include Grenzone’s development of
rural solar applications; and Solar2D’s study on fluorescent dyes thataims to increase the bandwidth of radiation absorbed by differentsemiconductor materials, and improve efficiency in solar modules.Another example is Vestas, the world’s largest supplier of wind powersystems, which is setting up a $500 million R&D Centre in Singaporewith 150 research scientists and engineers.
There are also a number of programmes in fuel cell R&D. Nanyang
Polytechnic and Temasek Polytechnic are embarking on their ownprogrammes, with the latter planning to invest over $5 million to establisha Fuel Cell Application Centre to engage start-ups for collaborativeR&D. In industry, Rolls-Royce embarked on a $10 million 3-year jointresearch programme with A*STAR and ceramics supplier, AdvancedMaterials Technologies, to develop automated fuel cell manufacturingtechnology.
Moving forward, we will be intensifying our efforts on energy R&D to
develop sustainable energy solutions for both domestic applicationsand the global market. There is a myriad of technologies that we canpursue. However, given Singapore’s limited resources, it is not possibleor practical to invest in every field. We need to be focused on areasthat play to our strengths, so as to increase our chances of success.CHARTING OUR TECHNOLOGY FUTURE
— STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
We have adopted a forward-looking and holistic approach that includes
building energy R&D infrastructure and test-bedding platforms,establishing energy R&D programmes, and putting strategic energyR&D funding in place. The key initiatives are:
(i) Singapore Initiative on New Energy Technologies (SINERGY)
Centre
SINERGY Centre will be established to provide the technical infrastructure
for the development of clean energy technologies and sustainableenergy solutions. It will consist of the following:
a)Microgrid
This will enable researchers and companies to test-bed novelpower generating, storage, and integrated power/thermalsystems and study their performance in a grid environment.These systems can be harnessed to work in concert with oneanother in main grid-isolated (islanded) mode as well as in maingrid-paralleled operations. They can also utilise a variety ofconventional and alternative fuels such as natural gas, biofuelsand hydrogen.
b)Command & Control Facility
It will serve as the control centre for the assets on the microgridand provide access to other systems and assets operated bycollaborators. The facility will have technology to enable realtime information exchange, remote and intelligent monitoring,diagnosis, decision making, control and management. Suchcapabilities are important for the operation of physical energyand power systems; and for complex energy markets.

66ACHIEVING OUR ENERGY GOALS THROUGH R&D
SINERGY Centre will work with independently-funded research groups from both the public sector and industry. Through the resear ch collaborations,
the centre is expected to develop in-house expertise in systems integration, testing and evaluation of technologies. In time, t he centre may be
able to offer this expertise in the form of consultancy services to address issues such as grid management, energy efficiency a nd fuel management,
both locally and overseas.
We intend for SINERGY Centre to interact regularly with companies in the clean energy and sustainable energy solutions sectors.  R&D laboratory
and incubation space will be made available for companies developing products and solutions for the power industry, such as in power electronics,
conversion devices, materials, storage and portable power systems, advanced cooling and dehumidification technologies, sensors,  monitoring
and control devices. In addition, the centre will explore the feasibility of working with venture capitalists and other firms t o provide commercialisation
support for the technologies developed.
Besides industry, the centre will also provide the technical know-how to support Government agencies in their work on energy po licies and
regulations. This will allow for informed, innovative and forward-looking policies.
(ii) Energy Technology R&D Programme
A*STAR has established an Energy Technology R&D Programme as the focal point to coordinate, integrate and expand existing effor ts and
capabilities in fuel cells, alternative fuels (including biofuels and hydrogen) and next-generation solar PV technologies.
In addition, we will identify and develop new research thrusts under this programme, which will be relevant to Singapore’s deve lopmental strategies
for the energy industry and in areas where Singapore can be internationally competitive. In particular, we are starting a new r esearch thrust on
“Intelligent Energy Distribution Systems” that will utilise SINERGY Centre’s unique infrastructure to advance the development o f energy distribution
systems and technologies for the future.
The programme will also seek to develop the necessary talent by attracting renowned scientists and technology leaders to lead r esearch groups
under the programme; and training research manpower to support industry needs. It will foster research partnerships with local and overseas
research organisations to leverage on their strengths and reputation.

(iii) Clean Energy Research and Test-bedding Programme (CERT)
CERT was launched in August 2007 to stimulate research in the
application of clean energy in Singapore. A $17 million fund has beenallocated to support test-bedding projects involving the buildings andfacilities of various government agencies. CERT will complement the$50 million MND Research Fund for the Built Environment where R&Din green building technologies is a focus area.
Singapore Polytechnic and the NUS have been selected as the lead
R&D organisations for CERT. National Parks Board’s Gardens by theBay, PUB’s Marina Barrage and Singapore Polytechnic’s campus willbe the test-bedding sites in this first phase of CERT. The second phase,to start by January 2008, will include BCA’s Zero-Energy Building andHDB’s Eco-Precinct @ Punggol.By conducting research and test-bedding in Singapore through CERT,
Singapore-based companies and institutes of higher learning will beable to build competencies in system integration, installation, architecturaldesign, urban planning, green building technologies, energy efficiencyand building integrated PV. Through fine-tuning their technologies andbuilding up their track records, these companies can leverage onSingapore as a launchpad to export their products and servicesinternationally.
In addition, CERT will help the Government in studying the feasibility
of distributed generation as a possible component in the strategy forenergy diversification.
(iv) NRF Clean Energy Programme
The NRF has set aside $170 million to boost our clean energy R&D
with a focus on solar research as a start. The funding will be used to:
a) Provide competitive grants for clean energy projects undertaken
by both the public and private sectors;
b) Support the establishment of world-class clean energy R&D
centres to create the critical mass in innovationcapacity and establish global linkages to other centres ofexcellence; and
c) Incubate clean energy start-up companies by helping them to
commercialise their technologies.
Artist s impression of BCA s Zero Energy Building

Singapore’s external energy policy should therefore, not only involve
its efforts at energy diversification, but also include efforts to promoteregional and international cooperation to further Singapore’s energyinterests. The objectives of our external energy policy are three-fold:
OBJECTIVE 1: PROMOTE REGIONAL AND
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY COOPERATION
Energy diversification is an important element of Singapore’s efforts
to enhance its energy security. To reduce our dependence on any onesource of supply, Singapore will be exploring alternative sources andtypes of energy to meet future energy needs. In this regard, Singaporewill continue to develop its links and enhance cooperation with the keyenergy players, such as energy producing countries and key industrymajors, given that the relationships between them are also changingin fundamental ways.
Within the region, Singapore will also contribute to efforts to promote
greater energy security through regional fora such as ASEAN, ASEAN+3,EAS and APEC. In particular, Singapore will work towards the long-term goal of promoting a regional energy market through regionalenergy projects like the ASEAN Power Grid (APG) and the Trans-ASEAN Gas Pipeline (TAGP). When realised, these two projects willprovide a basis for the development of a regional energy trading market.
In addition to these efforts to develop regional energy markets, fora
like ASEAN, EAS and APEC have also been paying greater attentionto energy efficiency as a means to enhance energy security. ForSingapore in particular, even as we develop and share our owntechnologies in energy efficiency, conservation and renewable energyat these regional fora with others, we have also been learning fromcountries like the United States, Japan and Germany, which possessthe expertise and technological know-how in various fields of energyresearch and policy.
We will also dovetail our external energy policy with our external climate
change policy. Singapore is cognisant of the need to balance oureconomic growth with environmental sustainability, especially giventhe recent attention on the effects of climate change. On this account,Singapore has been a Party to the UNFCCC since 1997 and we haveacceded to the Kyoto Protocol in April 2006. We strongly support andactively participate in climate change initiatives both within the UNFCCC
framework and at other fora where the issue is being discussed. TheGovernment has set up a Ministerial Committee on Climate Changechaired by Deputy Prime Minister Professor S Jayakumar to coordinateour efforts. As a relatively small energy consumer accounting for only0.15 per cent of the world’s CO
2 emissions, Singapore has been finding
other innovative ways through which we can contribute meaningfully. Some of our efforts include working with other countries on R&D inrenewable energy, and sharing our expertise in various fields ofenvironmental management like water and waste management,sustainable city planning, and the preservation of greenery andbiodiversity.
With growing interest in cleaner forms of energy, nuclear energy has
re-emerged as an important alternative energy source.  However, thereremain concerns over its safety. Singapore, along with other ASEANcountries, will work towards establishing a Nuclear Energy Safety Sub-Sector Network (NES-SSN) to explore cooperation on nuclear safetyissues within ASEAN. Similarly, APEC has also recognised that whilenuclear energy can be a useful component in a member economy'senergy mix, it also carries certain trans-boundary risks.  We hope thatthe discussions on nuclear safety at APEC would reinforce our effortsto create a safe and secure environment for the peaceful developmentof civilian nuclear energy within ASEAN.
Opening Ceremony of 25th ASEAN Ministers on Energy Meeting on
23 August 2007 in Singapore

ACRONYMS
APEC Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation
APG ASEAN Power GridAR4 Fourth Assessment ReportARF Additional Registration FeeASEAN Association of Southeast
Asian Nations
A*STAR Agency for Science,
Technology and Research
BCA Building and Construction
Authority
BP British PetroleumCAGR Compound annual growth rateCCGT Combined cycle gas turbineCDM Clean Development
Mechanism
CEPO Clean Energy Programme
Office
CER Certified Emission ReductionCERT Clean Energy Research and
Test-bedding Programme
CNG Compressed natural gasCO Carbon monoxideCO
2 Carbon dioxide
COE Certificate of EntitlementEAS East Asia SummitEASe Energy Efficiency Improvement
Assistance Scheme
EDB Economic Development BoardEIA Energy Information
Administration
EMA Energy Market AuthorityEPG Energy Policy GroupERP Electronic Road PricingESCO Energy services companyESI Energy Studies InstituteESU Energy Sustainability UnitETTV Envelope Thermal Transfer
Value
EVS Electricity Vending SystemE
2PO Energy Efficiency Programme
Office
E2 SINGAPORE Energy Efficient Singapore
GDP Gross domestic productGFA Gross floor areaGHG Greenhouse gasGTP Global Trader ProgrammeGVR Green Vehicle Rebate
HDB Housing and Development
Board
IA Investment AllowanceICAO International Civil Aviation
Organisation
ICES Institute of Chemical
Engineering Sciences
IEA International Energy AgencyIE Singapore International Enterprise
Singapore
IETA International Emissions Trading
Association
IMRE Institute of Materials Research
and Engineering
IMO International Maritime
Organisation
IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change
ISC Information Sharing CentreJRC Jurong Rock CavernLNG Liquefied natural gasLRT Light Rail TransitLTA Land Transport AuthorityMEWR Ministry of the Environment and
Water Resources
MFA Ministry of Foreign AffairsMND Ministry of National
Development
MOF Ministry of FinanceMOT Ministry of TransportMRT Mass Rapid TransitMTI Ministry of Trade and IndustryMTOE Million tonnes of oil equivalentMTPA Million tonnes per annumNCCS National Climate Change
Strategy
NEA National Environment AgencyNES-SSN Nuclear Energy Safety Sub
Sector Network
NO
x Oxides of nitrogen
NRF National Research FoundationNTU Nanyang Technological
University
NUS National University of SingaporeN3C National Climate Change
Committee
OMV Open Market ValueOPEC Organisation of Petroleum
Exporting Countries
NCCS National Climate Change
Strategy
PM 2.5 Particulate matter finer than
2.5 microns
PM 10 Particulate matter finer than
10 microns
PNG Piped natural gasPPM Parts per millionPUB Public Utilities BoardPV PhotovoltaicReCAAP Regional Cooperation
Agreement on CombatingPiracy and Armed RobberyAgainst Ships in Asia
REVT Residential Envelope
Transmittance Value
RIEC Research, Innovation and
Enterprise Council
R&D Research and DevelopmentSCEM Singapore Certified Energy
Manager
SINERGY Singapore Initiative in New
Energy Technologies
SOMS Straits of Malacca and
Singapore
SO
2 Sulphur dioxide
TAGP Trans-ASEAN Gas PipelineTIDES Technology Innovation and
Development Scheme
UN United NationsUNEP United Nations Environment
Programme
UNFCCC United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change
USEPA US Environment Protection
Agency
VQS Vehicle Quota SystemWMO World Meteorological
Organisation

