Page 1 of 15 
 Republic of Singapore  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL REPORT  
ON THE IMPLEMENTATION  
OF OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE  
CONVENTION ON NUCLEAR SAFETY

Page 2 of 15 
 INTRODUCTION  
 
1 Ionising radiation such as x -ray and gamma radiation , and radionuclides are 
used in scientific, medical and industrial applications  in Singapore . Scientific 
research using radiation and radionuclides are carried out in institutes of higher 
learning. The applications of radiation and radioactive materials in the medical field 
include  nuclear medicine, diagnostic and therapeutic radiology , and radiation 
sterilisation of tissue grafts.  Radiation is also used in industrial non -destructive 
testing (NDT) inspections and in gamma -ray sterilisation of surgical consum ables.  
These applications are controlled under the Radiation Protection Act  of Singapore  
established since 1973.   
 
2 In Singapore, about 95 percent of Singapore’s electricity is generated from 
natural gas . Singapore does not have any nuclear  power or research reactor s, and 
at present does not have plans to adopt nuclear energy for power generation.

Page 3 of 15 
 Summary  
 
3 Singapore concluded  a two-year Pre-Feasibility Study in 2012 as a 
preliminary step to assess the feasibility of nuclear energy as an option to meet 
Singapore’s long -term energy needs . The Pre-Feasibility Study  sought a deeper 
understanding of the potential and limitations of current and emerging nuclear 
energy technologies from Singapore’s perspective , with safety being of paramount 
importance.  The pre -feasibility study had three conclusions: First, nuclear energy 
technologies available at that time were  not yet suitable for deployment in Singapore.  
Second,  Singapore need ed to continue to  strengthen our capabilities to understand 
nuclear science  and technology.  This would  enable us to assess the implications of 
evolving nuclear energy technologies and regional nuclear energy developments for 
Singapore, and enhance our emergency preparedness . Third, Singapore should play 
an active role in global a nd regional cooperation to improve nuclear safety . 
 
Strengthening capabilities to understand nuclear science and technology  
4 In building up Singapore’s nuclear capabilities  to prepare for the growth of 
nuclear energy in our region , the National Environment Agency (NEA)  of Singapore  
signed a Letter of Intent (LOI) with the Danish Emergency Management Agency 
(DEMA) to collaborate in the areas of nuclear and radiation safety, and emergency 
preparedness and response.  The LOI was signed on 15 December 2012 at the  side-
lines of the Fukushima Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety held in Fukushima, 
Japan. Since 2013,  NEA has sen t its officer s to attend postgraduate programme s in 
nuclear engineer ing and relevant training courses and workshops on nuclear safety 
to acquire a deeper understanding and knowledge of the subject.  
  
5 The National Research Foundation (NRF), Prime Minister’s Office, Singapore 
also announced in April 2014, the allocation  of S$63 million spread over the next five 
years, for the Nuclear Safety Research and Education Programme (NSREP).  Under 
the NSREP, the Singapore Nuclear Researc h and Safety Initiative (SNRSI) was set 
up to focus on research and developing capabilities in nuclear safety, science and 
engineering. SNRSI is a national resource hosted in the National University of 
Singapore (NUS) that taps into the existing expertise in local research institutions 
and builds up new capabilities.  SNRSI is led by Professor Lim Hock, currently 
Director, Research Governan ce and Enablement, Office of Deputy President 
(Research and Technology) and Professor of Physics, NUS . 
 
6 In 2014 and 2015, Singapore collaborated with the IAEA to implement the 
following national Technical Cooperation (TC) projects:  
 
a) Strengthening Capacity in Radiation Protection , Environmental Monitoring 
and Waste  Safety   
- To support Singapore government agencies in building the 
necessary expertise in the areas of radiation protection, 
environmental monitoring and waste safety.  
 
b) Developing a National Medical  Guidance Dose Code of Practice  
- To develop a national medical guidance dose document with 
diagnostic reference levels (DRLs) to give guidance on principles,

Page 4 of 15 
 and to give explanations on the establishment and applications of 
DRLs.   
 
c) Enhancing Radiation Emer gency Preparedness and Response 
Capabilities  
- To enhance the emergency preparedness and response capability 
of NEA staff through training and developing expertise for 
environmental and food monitoring, sampling and analysis, which 
are the key components in responding to a nuclear or radiological 
emergency.  
 
Playing an active role in global and regional cooperation to improve nuclear safety  
7 At the 6th Review Meeting of the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CNS) held in 
Austria, from 24 March to 4 April 2014, Singapore support ed Switzerland ’s proposal 
to amend the CNS to provide a legally binding obligation for nuclear power plants to 
be designed and constructed with the objective  of preventing accidents  and 
mitigating long -term off -site radiological contaminat ion. The Review Meeting agreed 
with a two -third majority to convene a Diplomatic Conference (DC) in 2015 to discuss 
the Swiss proposal. At the CNS DC in 2015, Contracting Parties  adopted  the Vienna 
Declaration on Nuclear Safety  by consensus . Singapore reiterated our call for all  
CNS  Contracting Parties, in particular those with nuclear installations and those 
planning to embark on a civilian nuclear programme, to implement the safety 
objectives contained in the Declaration expeditiously and in good faith.  
 
8 As part of Singapore’s continual efforts in supporting  nuclear safety, 
Singapore regularly attends the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) Seminar on Nuclear 
Safety (ASNS) . The ASEM is an annual seminar held to promote greater cooperation 
and dialogue on nuclear sa fety amongst Southeast Asian nations by drawing upon 
the knowledge and experience of the European Union, so as to establish a robust 
global nuclear safety framework. The most recent 4th ASEM was held  in Spain, from 
29 to 30 Octobe r 201 5 with the theme “Knowledge Management to Enhance Nuclear 
Safety” .   
 
9 Singapore is also a member of the ASEAN Network of Regulatory Bodies on 
Atomic Energy (ASEANTOM) established in 2012 . The ASEANTOM is a sectoral 
body under the ASEAN Political -Security Community, which comprises nuclear 
regulatory bodies from all ten ASEAN member states . It serves as a platform for 
cooperation amongst nuclear regulatory bodies within ASEAN in order to enhance 
regional nuclear safety, security and safeguards, based on the implementa tion 
of relevant  commitments to the International Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA) 
standards and guidelines  and other multilateral agreements which ASEAN member 
states are party to . The 3rd ASEANTOM Meeting in 2015 reviewed activities 
conducted thus far  and d iscussed further activities under the ASEANTOM work plan 
for 201 6 – 2017. This includes the implementation of the four-year IAEA -
ASEANTOM regional cooperation project beginning in 2016, to support the 
development of a  regional environmental radioactivity d atabase and a nuclear 
emergency preparedness and response  framework in Southe ast Asia .

Page 5 of 15 
 ARTICLE -BY-ARTICLE REPORT  
 
 
Article 4.  Implementing Measures  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take, within the framework of its national law, the legislative, regulatory  
and administrative measures and other steps necessary for implementing its obligations under this 
Convention. ] 
 
10 Singapore became a party to the CNS  on 15 March 1998.  The legislative 
framework for ensuring radiation safety is well established in Singapore  as reported 
by the IAEA peer review mission in 2000.  Regulations have been updated to take 
into account developments , such as the International Commission on Radiological 
Protection (ICRP) -60 recommendations and the IAEA Basic Safety Standards (BSS). 
Singapore undertake s to implement the obligations under the Convention through 
regulatory or administrative means.  
 
 
Article 5.  Reporting  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall submit for review, prior to each meeting referred to in Article 20, a report 
on the measur es it has taken to implement each of the  obligations of this Convention]  
 
11 Submission of this report fulfils the obligation of this Article.  
 
 
Article 6.  Existing Nuclear Installations  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that  the safety of nuclear 
installations existing at the time the Convention enters into force for that Contracting Party is reviewed 
as soon as possible.  When necessary, in the context of this Convention, the Contracting Party shall 
ensure that all reasonabl y practicable improvements are made as a matter of urgency to upgrade the 
safety of the nuclear installation.  If such upgrading cannot be achieved, plans should be implemented 
to shut down the nuclear installation as soon as po ssible.  The timing of the s hut-down may take into 
account the whole energy context and possible alternatives as well as the social, en vironmental and 
economic impact.]  
 
12 Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its territory  and at 
present does not have plans to embark  on a nuclear energy programme .   
 
 
Article 7.  Legislative and Regulatory Framework  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall establish and maintain the legislative and regulatory framework to 
govern the sa fety of nuclear installations.  
 
The legislative and regulator y framework shall provide for:  
 
(i) the establishment of applicable national safety requirements and regulations;  
(ii) a system of licensing with regard to nuclear installations and the prohibition of the operation of 
a nuclear installation without a license;  
(iii) a sys tem of regulatory inspection and assessment of nuclear installations to ascertain 
compliance with applicable regulations and the terms of licenses;

Page 6 of 15 
 (iv) the enforcement of applicable regulations and of the terms of licenses, including suspension, 
modification o r revocation. ] 
 
13 In Singapore, t he Radiation Protection Act was first enacted  in 1973 and the 
Radiation Protection Regulations were gazetted  in 1974.  This Act was revoked in 
1991 and re -enacted to include the control of non -ionising radiation.  The Radiati on 
Protection (Non -Ionising Radiation) Regulations were gazetted in 1991.  
  
14 The Radiation Protection Regulations 1974 were amended in 2000 to take 
into consideration the 1990 Recommendations of the ICRP on dose limits for 
occupationally exposed individuals and members of the public, and the BSS 
requirements.  The Regulations for the transport of radioactive materials were also 
amended in 2000, to be in line with the IAEA Safety Standards Series No. ST -1, 
1996 Edition – Regulations for the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials.  
 
15 In 2007, the Radiation Protection Act was repealed and re -enacted with 
amendments to transfer the roles and functions of the Centre for Radiation 
Protection (CRP), as well as the administration of the Radiation Protection Act, from 
the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) to the NEA. 
 
16 With the transfer of CRP from HSA to the NEA, a new department, the Centre 
for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Science (CRPNS) was formed under the NEA 
for the administration of the Radiation Protection Act.  The Centre is the current 
national regulatory authority for radiation protection  in Singapore. The CRPNS was 
renamed the Radiation Protection and Nuclear Science Department  (RPNSD)  in 
2013.   
 
17 On 22 September 2014, Singapore  deposited its instrument of accession to 
IAEA’s Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (CPPNM) and its 
instrument of acceptance to the 2005 CPPNM Amendment , and became a party to 
the CPPNM on 22 October 2014. This complet ed the accession process which was 
announced by Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong at the 3rd Nuclear 
Security Summit in the Netherlands in March 2014.  The Radiation Protection Act 
was amended to meet the obligations under the CPPNM and its 2005 Amen dment, 
such as the criminalising of misconduct pertaining to nuclear material. Amendments 
to the RPA were passed in the Singapore Parliament in 2014 . Singapore tracks 
every case of nuclear material (as defined under the CPPNM) transiting through its 
sea ports.  
 
Nuclear Safety  
 
18 As there are currently no plans for the introduction of nuclear energy in 
Singapore  in the near future , there is no existing legislative framework on the safety 
of nuclear power plant installations.

Page 7 of 15 
 Radiation Protection  
 
19 In Singa pore, t he manufacture, possession, use, dealing in, import and export 
of radioactive materials and irradiating apparatus  are controlled by the Radiation 
Protection Act.  Under this Act, there are four sets of Regulations, namely:  
 
a) Radiation Protection (Ionising Radiation) Regulations, Revised edition 
2001.  
 
b) Radiation Protection (Transport of Radioactive Materials) Regulations, 
Revised Edition 2001.  
 
c) Radiation Protection (Non -Ionising Radiation) Regulations Revised Edition 
2001.  
 
d) Radiation Protection ( Exemption for Transit, Transhipment and Carriage of 
Conveyance Equipment ) Regulations 2014 . 
 
20 The Act defines the appointment  of the Director -General of Environmental 
Protection ( of the NEA) who is charged with the administration of the Act.  Under the 
Act, licenses are required for the manufacture, possession,  use, dealing in, import 
and export of radioactive materials or irradiating apparatus.  A licence is also 
necessary for the transport of radioactive materials.  
 
21 The Director -General may grant or renew a  licence subject to such conditions, 
limitations and exceptions as may be specified by him. During the currency of the 
licence, he may vary, revoke or add any conditions, limitations or exceptions 
attached to the licence. He may also refuse an application for a licence, suspend the 
licence for a period of time , or cancel the licence.  
 
Other Relevant Legislation  
 
22 There are no other relevant legislation s specific to nuclear or radiation 
applications.  
 
Bilateral Agreements  
 
23 Singapore signed a Memorandum of Und erstanding ( MOU ) on the Third 
Country Training Programme  (TCTP)  with the IAEA in 2000.  The MOU aims to 
jointly train participants from developing IAEA Member States  in areas such as 
health, radiation protection, industry and environment.  Under the MOU, Singapore 
has been providing training for professionals from various countries to help build up 
their regulatory infrastructure for radiation safety in medical and industrial 
applications.  
 
24 During his visit to Singapore i n January 2015, IAEA Director -General Yukiya 
Amano signed  an enhanced  Singapore -IAEA TCTP MOU  with then-Singapore 
Second  Minister for Foreign Affairs and Second Minister for the Environment and 
Water Resources, Ms Grace Fu. Under the enhanced  MOU, Singapore  and the IAEA 
will jointly provide  technical  assistance to developing countries in areas such as

Page 8 of 15 
 nuclear medicine and nuclear safety. In June 2016, Singapore and the IAEA 
organise d a Regional Workshop on Nuclear Law under the Singapore -IAEA TCTP, 
which cov ered various topics including the international nuclear legal framework for 
nuclear safety . 
 
 
Article 8.  Regulatory Body  
 
[ i)  Each Contracting Party shall establish or designate a regulatory body entrusted with the 
implementation of the legislative and regulatory framework referred to in Article 7, and provided with 
adequate authority, competence and financial and human resources to fulfil its assigned 
responsibilities.  
 
ii) Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure an effective s eparation 
between the functions of the regulatory body and those of any other body or organisation concerned 
with the promotion o r utilization of nuclear energy.]  
 
25 Singapore does not have a regulatory body to govern the safety of nuclear 
installations, as it does not have any nuclear installation within its territory.  
 
26 The NEA RPNSD , under the Ministry of the Environment and Water 
Resources is the national regulatory authority for radiation protection in  Singapore.  
The RPNSD  administers the Radiation Prot ection Act and its subsidiary regulations 
through a system of licensing , notification, authorization, inspection and enforcement 
on irradiating apparatus and radioactive materials.  
 
27 There is currently no organi sation promoting the use of nuclear power in 
Singapore . However,  if such an organi sation were to exist  in the future , Singapore 
will ensure  effective separation between this organisation and the national regulatory 
authority .  
 
 
Article 9.  Responsibility of the License Holder  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall ensure that prime responsibility for the safety of a nuclear installation 
rests with the holder of the relevant license and shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that each 
such license holder meets its responsibility. ] 
 
28 There are provisions in the Radiation Protection Act relating to occupational 
health and safety.  Every licensee shall provide a safe working environment to his 
employees , as follows : 
 
a) Protect all employees from unnecessary exposure to radiation  
b) Provide training and supervision for employees so that they can perform their 
work safely  
c) Provide employees with radiation monitoring equipment including personal 
monitoring devices  
d) Provide all employees with prescribed medical examinations  
e) Ensure that members of th e public are not exposed to risk to their health due 
to undertakings or activities of the licensee

Page 9 of 15 
 Article 10.  Priority to Safety  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that all organisations engaged in 
activities directly re lated to nuclear installations shall establish policies that give due priority to nuclear 
safety. ] 
 
29 Regular inspections of radiation facilities are carried out on a risk -based 
approach to ensure compliance with safety requirements.  Licensees are educated  
of the need to ensure that radiation safety is maintained as a top priority.  
 
 
Article 11.  Financial and Human Resources  
 
[i)  Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that adequate financial 
resources are available to support the  safety of each nuclear installation throughout its life.  
 
ii)  Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that sufficient numbers of 
qualified staff with appropriate education, training and retraining are available for all safety -related 
activities in or for each nuclear installation, throughout its life. ] 
 
30 Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its territory.   
 
31 Financial and h uman resources are available to support the safe use of 
radioactive materials and safe operation of equipment containing radiation sources in 
the hospitals and industries. All radiation workers  are trained to ensure that they are 
able to carry out their work safely . 
 
 
Article 12.  Human Factors  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that the capabilities and limitations 
of human performance are taken into account throughout the life of a nuclear installation. ] 
 
32 Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its territory.   
 
33 For high -risk premises  using ionising radiation , systems of checks are in place 
to minimise human errors.  Standard operating procedures  are also required to deal 
with emergencies.  This is established as part of licensing requirements.  
 
 
Article 13.  Quality Assurance  
 
[Each Con tracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that quality assurance programs 
are established and implemented with a view to providing confidence that specified requirements for 
all activities important to nuclear safety are satisfied throughou t the life of a nuclear installation. ] 
 
34 Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its territory.   
 
35 Many facilities with radioactive materials have been ISO -accredited or are in 
the process of acquiring accreditation.  Licensing requirements and compliance with 
safety requirements are incorporated as part of their quality assurance program mes.

Page 10 of 15 
  
Article 14.  Assessment and Verification of Safety  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that:  
 
i)  comprehensive and systematic safety assessments are carried out before the construction 
and commissioning of a nuclear installation and throughout its life.  Such assessments shall be well 
documented, subsequently updated in the light of operating experience and significant  new safety 
information, and reviewed under the authority of the regulatory body;  
 
ii)  verification by analysis, surveillance, testing and inspection is carried out to ensure that the 
physical state and the operation of a nuclear installation continue to be in accordance with its design, 
applicable national safety requirements, and operational limits and conditions. ] 
 
36 Not applicable as Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its 
territory  and at present has no plans to embark on a nuclear e nergy programme  in 
the near future .   
 
 
Article 15.  Radiation Protection  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that in all operational states the 
radiation exposure to the workers and the public caused by a nuclear installatio n shall be kept as low 
as reasonably achievable and that no individual shall be exposed to radiation doses which exceed 
prescribed national dose limits. ] 
 
37 Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its territory.   
 
38 For radioactive materials, under the Radiation Protection (Ionising Radiation) 
Regulations, the As Low As Reasonably Achievable ( ALARA ) principle as required 
by the International BSS is being applied . The exposure limits provided in these 
Regulations are the basis for planning and implementation of all protection measures 
necessary for the protection of occupationally exposed individuals and members of 
the general public.  
 
39 The Regulations specify that anyone who is in possession of o r using 
radiation sources must ensure that radiation work is carried out safely, and not cause 
any individual to receive a radiation dose more than that is justifiable and not more 
than the specified annual dose limit.  
 
40 Any occupationally exposed individual who has received a radiation dose in 
excess of the annual dose limit, shall be suspended from radiation work and sent for 
a medical examination, including full blood examinations.  An investigation will be 
made to determine the cause of the exce ssive dose and measures will be taken to 
ensure that the accident/incident does not happen again.  
 
41 In the Regulations, the effective dose limit average over a defined period of 5 
years, to the whole body is 20 mSv per year for occupationally exposed indivi duals 
and 1 mSv per year for members of the public.

Page 11 of 15 
 42 Radioactive materials are required to be stored in a safe and secured place.  
The radiation levels outside the defined area where the radioactive materials are 
stored must not exceed the limits specified  in the Regulations.  
 
43 Radioactive waste  generated in Singapore originate s mainly from hospitals, 
education al/research institutions and some commercial companies.   
 
44 Guidelines have been set up for the safe management and disposal  of 
radioactive wastes . The waste  generated has radionuclides with comparatively short 
half-lives and low radio activity. According to current national legislation, short lived 
waste is stored to allow for decay and is subject to authorized discharge/disposal.  
 
45 As a policy, all  disus ed sealed radioactive sources are returned to the country 
of origin. However, there have been cases where  disused Ra-226 needles and 
radioactive lightning conductors which were supplied before 1980 could not  be 
return ed to their country of origin  as the vendors are no longer operating or cannot 
be identified .  However, quantities of such sources are small and are at present 
being conditioned and stored safely by the NEA RPN SD.   
 
46 In September and October 2011, the NEA RPNSD collaborated with the IAEA 
to successfully complete the following TC national projects:  
 
a) Repatriation of a high radioactive Cesium source of about 800 Ci from a 
disused radiotherapy  irradiating equipment. The source was sent to Germany 
for recycling.  
 
b) Conditioning of disused  radioactive sources comprising  360 lightning 
conductors, 200 smoke detectors and 160 check sources . A total of 3,212 
pieces of radioactive sources (Radium, Americium, Cobalt, and Strontium)  
with a  total radioactivity of ~570 mCi  were conditioned . 
 
 
Article 16. Emergency Preparedness  
 
[ i)  Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that there are on -site and 
off-site emergency plans that are routinely tested for nuclear installations and cover the activities to be 
carried out in the event of an emergency.  
 
For any new nuclear installation, such plans shall be prepared and tested before it 
commences operation above a low power level agreed by the regulatory body.  
 
ii)  Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure t hat, insofar as they are 
likely to be affected by a radiological emergency, its own population and the competent authorities of 
the states in the vicinity of the nuclear installation are provided with appropriate information for 
emergency planning and resp onse.  
 
iii)  Contracting Parties which do not have a nuclear installation on their territory, insofar as they 
are likely to be affected in the event of a radiological emergency at a nuclear installation in the vicinity, 
shall take the appropriate steps for  the preparation and testing of emergency plans for their territory 
that cover the activities to be carried out in the event of such an emergency. ] 
 
47 Although Singapore has no nuclear installation , several countries in our region 
are embarking on or plannin g for nuclear power programmes. T he Government has

Page 12 of 15 
 devoted efforts to build capability in nuclear safety , environmental radiation 
monitoring , and emergency preparedness due to the transboundary nature  of 
nuclear and radiological emergencies .  
 
48 In 2013, a  Singapore delegation undertook  a scientific visit to Denmark under 
the NEA -DEMA LOI to learn about environmental radiation monitoring and 
radiochemistry , including the type of  capabilities required pre -, during and post -
radiological/nuclear incident.  Following the scientific visit, NEA has devoted efforts to 
the setting up of a radiochemistry laboratory  and a radiation monitoring network . The 
radiochemistry laboratory  and monitoring network , when operational  in 2017  and 
2019 respectively , will establish and monitor baseline background levels of radiation 
in the environment .  
 
49 On the regional front, the IAEA and ASEANTOM are implementing a four-year 
Regional Technical Cooperation project, commencing in 2016, to support the 
development of a regional environmen tal radioactivity database and nuclear 
emergency preparedness and response framework in South East Asia. In line with 
the IAEA -ASEANTOM  Regional Technical Cooperation project, the European 
Commission is also supporting ASEAN member states in developing a Strategy for 
Regional Cooperation on Radiological and Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and 
Response and an Action Plan for its Implementation . These two projects are 
intended to culminate in more harmonized emergency plans and response measures  
between ASEAN member states, while cooperating  with international  partners in 
nuclear issues . 
 
50 In March 2011, Singapore developed response plans to respond to the 
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant accident. These response plans are currently 
being reviewed to cater for an incident at an external nuclear power plant that may 
be in the proximity of key areas of interest such as sources of food produce exported 
to Singapore. The overall national response plan will seek to address trans -boundary 
implications that may ari se from the radioactive fallout following an incident at an 
external nuclear power plant, including the movement of contaminated food, cargo 
and travelers.  
 
51 Singapore also developed an inter -agency emergency plan to deal with 
radiological incidents  happeni ng within Singapore . The related  agencies involved in 
the emergency plan are as detailed under ‘ the Organisation Structure’ below.   
 
Organisation Structure  
 
52 Under the inter-agency e mergency plan for radiological incidents , the 
respective  related agencies  have their own sub -plans for response.  The se 
operational sub -plans are coordinated by the Incident Manager , the Singapore Civil 
Defence Force (SCDF) .

Page 14 of 15 
  
Long Term Protective Measures  
a) Medical follow -up of affected persons.  
b) Continue checks on food and water . 
 
Public Information  
 
56 Information regarding status of emergency to be provided to the media/public 
will be released by the Ministry of Communication s and Information . 
 
Workshops and Exercises  
 
57 Exercises of the radiological emergency plan are held regularly to ensure 
effective communication and clear understanding of the individual roles and 
functions of each responding organisation. Such exercises are found to be beneficial 
especially  for the training of new staff.  
 
58 In Dec ember  2012, Singapore hosted an IAEA regional workshop on 
Notification, Reporting and Requesting Assistance. Participants from regional 
countries took part and shared their national capabilities in emergency preparedness 
and response.   
 
59 In December 2015 and Feb ruary 2016, Singapore participated in Conv Ex-2c 
and ConvEx -2a exercises respectively conducted by the IAEA’s Incident and 
Emergency Centre (IEC). Participation in the ConvEx exercises allowed Singapore 
to test its emergency response arrangements for a tran snational radiological 
emergency.  
 
60 In addition , Singapore also participated actively in emergency preparedness 
and response -related training courses and workshops , such as the Malaysia -
Thailand  Joint Table Top and Field Exercise on “Detection of Materials Out of 
Regulatory Control at National Borders”  in August 2015.  
 
 
Article 17.  Siting  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that appropriate procedures are 
established and implemented:  
 
(i) for evaluating all relevant site -related factors likely to affect the safety of a nuclear installation 
for its projected lifetime;  
(ii) for evaluating the likely safety impact of a proposed nuclear installation on individuals, society 
and the environment;  
(iii) for re -evaluating, as necessary, all relevant factors referred to in sub -paragraphs (i) and (ii) so 
as to ensure the continued safety acceptability of the nuclear installation;  
(iv) for consulting Contracting Parties in the vicinity of a proposed nuclear installation, insofar as 
they are likely to be affec ted by that installation and, upon request providing the necessary 
information to such Contracting Parties, in order to enable them to evaluate and make their 
own assessment of the likely safety impact on their own territory of the nuclear installation. ]

Page 15 of 15 
 61 Not applicable as Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its 
territory  and at present has no plans  to embark on a nuclear energy program me in 
the near future . 
 
 
Article 18.  Design and Construction  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that:  
 
(i) the design and construction of a nuclear installation provides for several reliable levels and 
methods of protection (defense in depth) against the release of radioactive materials, with a 
view to preventing the occurrenc e of accidents and to mitigating their radiological 
consequences should they occur;  
(ii) the technologies incorporated in the design and construction of a nuclear installation are 
proven by experience or qualified by testing or analysis;  
(iii) the design of a nuclear  installation allows for reliable, stable and easily manageable 
operation, with specific consideration of human factors and the man -machine interface. ] 
 
62 Not applicable as Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its 
territory and at present has no plans to embark on a nuclear energy program me in 
the near future . 
 
 
Article 19.  Operation  
 
[Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that:  
 
(i) the initial authorisation to operate a nuclear installation is based upon an appropriate safety 
analysis and a commissioning program demonstrating that the installation, as constructed, is 
consistent with design and safety requirements;  
(ii) operational limits and conditions derived from the safety analysis, tests and operational 
experi ence are defined and revised as necessary for identifying safe boundaries for 
operation;  
(iii) operation, maintenance, inspection and testing of a nuclear installation are conducted in 
accordance with approved procedures;  
(iv) procedures are established for respondin g to anticipated operational occurrences and to 
accidents;  
(v) necessary engineering and technical support in all safety -related fields is available throughout 
the lifetime of a nuclear installation;  
(vi) incidents significant to safety are reported in a timely man ner by the holder of the relevant 
license to the regulatory body;  
(vii) programs to collect and analyze operating experience are established, the results obtained 
and the conclusions drawn are acted upon and that existing mechanisms are used to share 
important e xperience with international bodies and with other operating organisations and 
regulatory bodies;  
(viii) the generation of radioactive waste resulting from the operation of a nuclear installation is 
kept to the minimum practicable for the process concerned, both in activity and in volume, 
and any necessary treatment and storage of spent fuel and waste directly related to the 
operation and on the same site as that of the nuclear installation take into consideration 
conditioning and disposal. ] 
  
63 Not applicable as Singapore does not have any nuclear installation within its 
territory and at present has no plans  to embark on a nuclear energy program me in 
the near future . 
 
-----------------------------------------------------

